README file for programs mwrank, findinf, ratpoint

There are three programs in this distribution, called mwrank, findinf
and ratpoint.  The first two work on elliptic curves over Q given by
Weierstrass equations with standard coefficients [a1,a2,a3,a4,a6].  If
the input curve is non-minimal or non-standard (where standard means
a1,a3 in {0,1} and a2 in {-1,0,1}) the input curve is replaced by a
standard minimal model, and points found are transferred back to the
original input model.  The programs tell you when the model is
changed.

In all cases there are 2 possible input formats for curves:

[a1,a2,a3,a4,a6]
a1 a2 a3 a4 a6

So if the first character read is '[' it expects a single non-space
delimiter between coefficients and one at the end; otherwise it
expects 5 integers separated by space.  If the input is invalid the
programs stop, so you can use 0 0 0 0 0 to end the input stream.


findinf searches for points on the curves up to a given bound on the
logarithmic height, using sieving.  One can opt for either seeing all
points as they are found (verbose=1) or nothing until a final report
(verbose=0); also, if verbose=1 then one can opt for a simple list of
the points found, with no post-processing, or a full processing of the
points to find linear dependencies between them using the height
pairing.   The "regulator" output is just the regulator of the
subgroup of points found.

mwrank is described more fully in the file mwrank.doc.  Briefly,
mwrank does a 2-descent to determine the rank and gives points
covering the cosets of 2E(Q) in E(Q); depending on command-line
options, it may go further and attempt to complete to a Mordell-Weil
basis by doing further points searching as in findinf.

ratpoint works with quartics g(x) with integer coefficients,
g(x)=a*x^4+b*x^3+c*x^2+d*x+e.  It finds the Jacobian E of the curve
C:y^2=g(x), searches C for rational points and maps any point found to
E using the 2-covering map.  Current version quits as soon as one
point on C is found.

Systems supported:

*Versions for Sun (SunOS 4) are in sun/mwrank.gz etc.
*Versions for SGI (IRIX  5) are in sgi/mwrank.gz etc.
*(1) Versions for DOS (386+ with coprocessor) are in dos/mwrank.exe etc.
*Versions for Linux (ELF) are in linux/mwrank.gz etc.


(1) Only has very OLD versions as I have not at present got access to
a suitable DOS machine with GCC installed, sorry.

Executables for systems other than alpha and intel-linux are out date.
Sources: for gcc-2.7 and earlier use mwrank2.7.tar.gz, which does not
require LiDIA (though is faster of you have it).  For gcc-2.8 use
mwrank2.8.tar.gz which DOES require LiDIA for the multiprecision
integers.  No source which works with gcc-2.9 is available yet.


							John Cremona

							 6/2/95
						updated	 7/8/95
						updated	12/1/98
						updated	20/4/00

						john.cremona@nottingham.ac.uk
